- [Instructor] Of all the data patterns from Microservices
we will discuss in this course,
the Command Query Responsibility Segregation pattern
is by far the most complex of them all.
CQRS is one of the most ethereal concepts of Microservices.
Those that get it well and can implement it successfully,
can dramatically improve their data behavior
across the system as a whole.
The core pattern we are solving
is that our data access patterns diverge
from traditional CRUD to more complex multi-model patterns
within a single bounded context or data delay.
This becomes more clear as we have multiple interfaces.
In CQRS model, query interfaces may transform
and aggregate the schema to represent the model
in a very specific use.
However, the right interfaces may inject behavior
and infer characteristics
based on an entirely different model
and set of rules.
But the underlying data becomes the same
through eventual consistency.
Now obviously this is a very clear divergence from CRUD,
where a model has a unified set of rules
about reading and writing.
In CQRS, we diverge dramatically
and apply different rules, as I previously stated.
As you might imagine, this dramatically increases
complexity of the system.
When you need this special type of processing
and want to go beyond business processes
to accomplish this access pattern,
CQRS can be great if implemented correctly.
But, if it isn't it can cause a nightmare
from a maintainability and operational perspective.
So, you may ask, when is the complexity
worth the pain of CQRS?
A common place that it is attempted
is with task-based user interfaces.
As the write model focuses on the tasks,
the read models are based on the system state
after the interactions from that task.
Because of how these systems work,
eventual consistency isn't just something you can live with
it's a must have.
You must fully accept that you cannot read data
that was just written and be guaranteed its state.
As such, your use cases must match this model.
Furthermore, event-driven models also play well
in this use case.
When triggers and system events occur
from the write operations, the CQRS model works well
because reading what was just written doesn't make sense.
Now, this is where I'm going to stop for this course.
I'm not going to go much deeper into this pattern.
We've exposed it and introduced it,
but the reality is that I could spend hours
working through the ins and out
of how to build this correctly
and it still wouldn't solve the needs of your use case.
If you find yourself traveling down this road
do some homework on the topic.
And spend some significant time and design
before you even create the empty project
that will house your code.
This is a very complex topic
and if you read many blog posts
you will see failure after failure of implementing this
because it's not easy.
But like I said before, when it's done right
it is extremely powerful
and it reduces the complexity of your system as a whole,
even though this component itself becomes much more complex.